Inference for PROs (#1525)
huggingface/blog: inference-pro.md

```python
for token in client.text_generation("How do you make cheese?", max_new_tokens=12, stream=True):
    print(token)

# To
# make
# cheese
#,
# you
# need
# to
# start
# with
# milk
```

To use the generate_stream endpoint with curl, you can add the `-N`/`--no-buffer` flag, which disables curl default buffering and shows data as it arrives from the server.

```
curl -N https://api-inference.huggingface.co/models/meta-llama/Llama-2-70b-chat-hf \
    -X POST \
    -d '{"inputs": "In a surprising turn of events, ", "parameters": {"temperature": 0.7, "max_new_tokens": 100}}' \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <YOUR_TOKEN>"
```

### Error handling

When errors occur, they may appear in the following flavors:
- As an HTTP response code.
- As a service-specific error that goes with a successful HTTP response code `200`. For example, if the model was evicted after a period of inactivity, you may encounter the following response:

```json
{'error': 'Model stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-1-base is currently loading',
 'estimated_time': 726.7694702148438}

> ```

Author: Maybe remove or simplify this section, as `InferenceClient` abstracts away these issues. Thoughts?

Reviewer: Yes, removed!

- [Applications](#applications)
    - [Chat with Llama 2 and Code Llama](#chat-with-llama-2-and-code-llama)
    - [Code infilling with Code Llama](#code-infilling-with-code-llama)
    - [Stable Diffusion XL](#stable-diffusion-xl)
- [Generation Parameters](#generation-parameters)
    - [Controlling Text Generation](#controlling-text-generation)
    - [Controlling Image Generation](#controlling-image-generation)
    - [Caching](#caching)
    - [Streaming](#streaming)
- [Subscribe to PRO](#subscribe-to-pro)
- [FAQ](#faq)

## Supported Models

In addition to thousands of public models available in the Hub, PRO users get free access to the following state-of-the-art models:

| Model               | Size             | Context Length | Use                                   |
|---------------------|------------------|----------------|---------------------------------------|
| Llama 2 Chat        | 7B, 13B, and 70B | 4k tokens      | One of the best conversational models |
| Code Llama Base     | 7B and 13B       | 4k tokens      | Autocomplete and infill code          |
| Code Llama Instruct | 70B              | 16k tokens     | Conversational code assistant         |

> | SDXL                | -                | -              | Generate images                       |

Reviewer 2: I would name it Stable Diffusion XL instead of SDXL. Should we add links to model cards here too (maybe in size and add it for sdxl)?

> Inference for PROs makes it easy to experiment and prototype with new models without having to deploy them on your own infrastructure. It gives PRO users access to ready-to-use HTTP endpoints for all the models listed above. It’s not meant to be used for heavy production applications - for that, we recommend using [Inference Endpoints](https://ui.endpoints.huggingface.co/catalog). Inference for PROs also allows using applications that depend upon an LLM endpoint, such as using a [VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=HuggingFace.huggingface-vscode) for code completion, or have your own version of [Hugging Chat](http://hf.co/chat).

Reviewer 2: I would add something about rate limiting. how does it work?

## Getting started with Inference For PROs

> Using Inference for PROs is as simple as sending a POST request to the API endpoint for the model you want to run. You'll also need to get an authentication token from [your token settings page](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens) and use it in the request. For example, to generate text using [Llama 2 70B Chat](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-2-70b-chat-hf) in a terminal session, you'd do something like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using Inference for PROs is as simple as sending a POST request to the API endpoint for the model you want to run. You'll also need to get a PRO account authentication token from [your token settings page](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens) and use it in the request. For example, to generate text using [Llama 2 70B Chat](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-2-70b-chat-hf) in a terminal session, you'd do something like:
```

```json
[{"generated_text":"In a surprising turn of events, 20th Century Fox has released a new trailer for Ridley Scott's Alien"}]
```

You can also use many of the familiar transformers generation parameters, like `temperature` or `max_new_tokens`:

```bash
curl https://api-inference.huggingface.co/models/meta-llama/Llama-2-70b-chat-hf \
    -X POST \
    -d '{"inputs": "In a surprising turn of events, ", "parameters": {"temperature": 0.7, "max_new_tokens": 100}}' \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <YOUR_TOKEN>"
```

```json
[{"generated_text":"In a surprising turn of events, 2K has announced that it will be releasing a new free-to-play game called NBA 2K23 Arcade Edition. This game will be available on Apple iOS devices and will allow players to compete against each other in quick, 3-on-3 basketball matches.\n\nThe game promises to deliver fast-paced, action-packed gameplay, with players able to choose from a variety of NBA teams and players, including some of the biggest"}]
```

For more details on the generation parameters, please take a look at [_Controlling Text Generation_](#controlling-text-generation) below.
    

> To send your requests in Python, you can take advantage of `InferenceClient`, a convenient utility available in the `huggingface_hub` Python library:

Reviewer 2: Add the existence of huggingface.js somewhere too (no need to show examples)

    "Dark gothic city in a misty night, lit by street lamps. A man in a cape is walking away from us",
    guidance_scale=9,
)
```

![SDXL example generation](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/inference-for-pros/sdxl-example.png)

For more details on how to control generation, please take a look at [this section](#controlling-image-generation).

## Generation Parameters

### Controlling Text Generation

Text generation is a rich topic, and there exist several generation strategies for different purposes. We recommend [this excellent overview](https://huggingface.co/blog/how-to-generate) on the subject. Many generation algorithms are supported by the text generation endpoints, and they can be configured using the following parameters:

- `do_sample`: If set to `False` (the default), the generation method will be _greedy search_, which selects the most probable continuation sequence after the prompt you provide. Greedy search is deterministic, so the same results will always be returned from the same input. When `do_sample` is `True`, tokens will be sampled from a probability distribution and will therefore vary across invocations.

> - `temperature`: Controls the amount of variation we desire from the generation. A temperature of `0` is equivalent to greedy search. If we set a value for `temperature`, then `do_sample` will automatically be enabled. The same thing happens for `top_k` and `top_p`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `temperature`: Controls the amount of variation we desire from the generation. A temperature of `0` is equivalent to greedy search. If we set a value for `temperature`, then `do_sample` will automatically be enabled. The same thing happens for `top_k` and `top_p`. When doing code-related tasks, we want less variability and hence recommend a low `temperature`. For other tasks, such as open-ended text generation, we recommend a higher one.
```

---
title: Inference for PROs
thumbnail: /blog/assets/inference_pro/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: osanseviero
- user: pcuenq
- user: victor
---

# Inference for PROs

<!-- {blog_metadata} -->
<!-- {authors} -->

Today, we're introducing Inference for PRO users - a community offering that gives you access to APIs of curated endpoints for some of the most exciting models available, as well as improved rate limits for the usage of free Inference API. 

> Hugging Face provides a free Inference API for over 200,000 models from not only Transformers and Diffusers but also many other open-source libraries. Hugging Face PRO users benefit from higher rate limits, allowing them to use models to build prototypes and proof of concepts more extensively. On top of that, PRO users get exclusive access to Inference API for a curated list of models that benefit from extremely fast inference powered by [text-generation-inference](https://github.com/huggingface/text-generation-inference).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hugging Face PRO users now have access to exclusive API endpoints for a curated list of powerful models that benefit from ultra-fast inference powered by [text-generation-inference] (https://github.com/huggingface/text-generation-inference). The free inference API is still available for +200,000 models, but PRO users will benefit from higher rate limits on these models, allowing them to use models more extensively for prototyping and building proof of concepts. 
```

Author: How about something like the following?

```suggestion
Hugging Face PRO users now have access to exclusive API endpoints for a curated list of powerful models that benefit from ultra-fast inference powered by [text-generation-inference](https://github.com/huggingface/text-generation-inference). This is a benefit on top of the free inference API, which is available to all Hugging Face users to facilitate testing and prototyping on 200,000+ models. PRO users enjoy higher rate limits on these models, as well as exclusive access to some of the best models available today.
```

Trying to make it sound more positive / exciting

Reviewer 2: LGTM!

---
title: Inference for PROs
thumbnail: /blog/assets/inference_pro/thumbnail.png
authors:
  - user: osanseviero
  - user: pcuenq
  - user: victor
---

# Inference for PROs

<!-- {blog_metadata} -->
<!-- {authors} -->

![Inference for PROs image](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/inference-for-pros/Inference-for-pros.png)

> Today, we're introducing Inference for PRO users - a community offering that gives you access to APIs of curated endpoints for some of the most exciting models available, as well as improved rate limits for the usage of free Inference API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Today, we're introducing Inference for PRO users - a community offering that gives you access to APIs of curated endpoints for some of the most exciting models available, as well as improved rate limits for the usage of free Inference API. You can [subscribe to PRO](https://huggingface.co/subscribe/pro) for $9/month. 
```

---
title: Inference for PROs
thumbnail: /blog/assets/inference_pro/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: osanseviero
- user: pcuenq
- user: victor
---

# Inference for PROs

<!-- {blog_metadata} -->
<!-- {authors} -->

Today, we're introducing Inference for PRO users - a community offering that gives you access to APIs of curated endpoints for some of the most exciting models available, as well as improved rate limits for the usage of free Inference API. 

> Hugging Face has provided a free Inference API for over 150,000 Transformers and Diffusers models (among other libraries!). Hugging Face PRO users benefit from higher rate limits, allowing them to use models to build prototypes and proof of concepts more extensively. On top of that, PRO users get exclusive access to Inference API for a curated list of models that benefit from extremely fast inference powered by [text-generation-inference](https://github.com/huggingface/text-generation-inference).

Author: ```suggestion
Hugging Face provides a free Inference API for over 150,000 Transformers and Diffusers models (among other libraries!). Hugging Face PRO users benefit from higher rate limits, allowing them to use models to build prototypes and proof of concepts more extensively. On top of that, PRO users get exclusive access to Inference API for a curated list of models that benefit from extremely fast inference powered by [text-generation-inference](https://github.com/huggingface/text-generation-inference).
```

> Hugging Face has provided a free Inference API for over 150,000 Transformers and Diffusers models (among other libraries!). Hugging Face PRO users benefit from higher rate limits, allowing them to use models to build prototypes and proof of concepts more extensively. On top of that, PRO users get exclusive access to Inference API for a curated list of models that benefit from extremely fast inference powered by [text-generation-inference](https://github.com/huggingface/text-generation-inference).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Hugging Face has provided a free Inference API for over 150,000 models from not only Transformers, Diffusers, but also many other libraries. Hugging Face PRO users benefit from higher rate limits, allowing them to use models to build prototypes and proof of concepts more extensively. On top of that, PRO users get exclusive access to Inference API for a curated list of models that benefit from extremely fast inference powered by [text-generation-inference](https://github.com/huggingface/text-generation-inference).
```
?

    - [Stable Diffusion XL](#stable-diffusion-xl)
- [Generation Parameters](#generation-parameters)
    - [Controlling Text Generation](#controlling-text-generation)
    - [Controlling Image Generation](#controlling-image-generation)
    - [Caching](#caching)
    - [Streaming](#streaming)
    - [Error Handling](#error-handling)
- [Subscribe to PRO](#subscribe-to-pro)
- [FAQ](#faq)

## Supported Models

In addition to thousands of public models available in the Hub, PRO users get free access to the following state-of-the-art models:

| Model               | Size             | Context Length | Use                                   |
|---------------------|------------------|----------------|---------------------------------------|
| Llama 2 Chat        | 7B, 13B, and 70B | 4k tokens      | One of the best conversational models |
| Code Llama Base     | 7B and 13B       | 4k tokens      | Autocomplete and infill code          |
| Code Llama Instruct | 70B              | 16k tokens     | Conversational code assistant         |
| SDXL                | -                | -              | Generate images                       |

> Inference for PROs makes it easy to experiment and prototype with new models without having to deploy them on your own infrastructure. It gives PRO access to ready-to-use HTTP endpoints for all the available models listed above. It’s not meant to be used for heavy production applications - for that, we recommend using [Inference Endpoints](https://ui.endpoints.huggingface.co/catalog). Inference for PROs also allows using applications that depend upon an LLM endpoint, such as using a [VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=HuggingFace.huggingface-vscode) for code completion or have their own version of [Hugging Chat](http://hf.co/chat).

Author: ```suggestion
Inference for PROs makes it easy to experiment and prototype with new models without having to deploy them on your own infrastructure. It gives PRO users access to ready-to-use HTTP endpoints for all the models listed above. It’s not meant to be used for heavy production applications - for that, we recommend using [Inference Endpoints](https://ui.endpoints.huggingface.co/catalog). Inference for PROs also allows using applications that depend upon an LLM endpoint, such as using a [VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=HuggingFace.huggingface-vscode) for code completion, or have your own version of [Hugging Chat](http://hf.co/chat).
```

    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <YOUR_TOKEN>"
```

Which would print something like this:

```json
[{"generated_text":"In a surprising turn of events, 20th Century Fox has released a new trailer for Ridley Scott's Alien"}]
```

You can also use many of the familiar transformers generation parameters, like `temperature` or `max_new_tokens`:

```bash
curl https://api-inference.huggingface.co/models/meta-llama/Llama-2-70b-chat-hf \
    -X POST \
    -d '{"inputs": "In a surprising turn of events, ", "parameters": {"temperature": 0.7, "max_new_tokens": 100}}' \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <YOUR_TOKEN>"
```

```json
[{"generated_text":"In a surprising turn of events, 2K has announced that it will be releasing a new free-to-play game called NBA 2K23 Arcade Edition. This game will be available on Apple iOS devices and will allow players to compete against each other in quick, 3-on-3 basketball matches.\n\nThe game promises to deliver fast-paced, action-packed gameplay, with players able to choose from a variety of NBA teams and players, including some of the biggest"}]
```

> For more details on the generation parameters, please take a look at [this section](#generation-parameters).

Author: ```suggestion
For more details on the generation parameters, please take a look at [_Controlling Text Generation_](#controlling-text-generation) below.
```

> To do the same thing in Python, you can take advantage of the `huggingface_hub` Python library utility functions, such as `InferenceClient`:

Author: ```suggestion
To send your requests in Python, you can take advantage of `InferenceClient`, a convenient utility available in the `huggingface_hub` Python library:
```

```bash
pip install huggingface_hub
```

> The `InferenceClient` is a helpful wrapper that allows you to make calls to the Inference API and Inference Endpoints easily:

Author: ```suggestion
`InferenceClient` is a helpful wrapper that allows you to make calls to the Inference API and Inference Endpoints easily:
```

```python
from huggingface_hub import InferenceClient

client = InferenceClient(model="meta-llama/Llama-2-70b-chat-hf", token=YOUR_TOKEN)

output = client.text_generation("Can you please let us know more details about your ")
print(output)
```

> If you don't want to pass the token explicitly every time you instantiate the client, you can use `notebook_login()` (in Jupyter notebooks), `huggingface-cli login` (in the terminal`, or `login(token=YOUR_TOKEN)` (everywhere else) to log in a single time. The token will then be automatically used from here.

Author: ```suggestion
If you don't want to pass the token explicitly every time you instantiate the client, you can use `notebook_login()` (in Jupyter notebooks), `huggingface-cli login` (in the terminal), or `login(token=YOUR_TOKEN)` (everywhere else) to log in a single time. The token will then be automatically used from here.
```

```Python
client = InferenceClient(model="codellama/CodeLlama-13b-hf", token=YOUR_TOKEN)

prompt_prefix = 'def remove_non_ascii(s: str) -> str:\n    """ '
prompt_suffix = "\n    return result"

prompt = f"<PRE> {prompt_prefix} <SUF>{prompt_suffix} <MID>"

infilled = client.text_generation(prompt, max_new_tokens=150)
infilled = infilled.rstrip(" <EOT>")
print(f"{prompt_prefix}{infilled}{prompt_suffix}")
```

```
def remove_non_ascii(s: str) -> str:
    """ Remove non-ASCII characters from a string.

    Args:
        s (str): The string to remove non-ASCII characters from.

    Returns:
        str: The string with non-ASCII characters removed.
    """
    result = ""
    for c in s:
        if ord(c) < 128:
            result += c
    return result
```

As you can see, the format used for infilling follows this pattern:

```
prompt = f"<PRE> {prompt_prefix} <SUF>{prompt_suffix} <MID>"
```

For more details on how this task works, please take a look at https://huggingface.co/blog/codellama#code-completion.

### Stable Diffusion XL

> SDXL is also available for PRO users. The response returned by the endpoint consists of a byte stream representing the generated image. If you use the `InferenceClient`, it will automatically decode to a `PIL` image for you:

Author: ```suggestion
SDXL is also available for PRO users. The response returned by the endpoint consists of a byte stream representing the generated image. If you use `InferenceClient`, it will automatically decode to a `PIL` image for you:
```

- `return_full_text`: whether to include the input sequence in the output returned by the endpoint. The default used by `InferenceClient` is `False`, but the endpoint itself uses `True` by default.
- `stop_sequences`: a list of sequences that will cause generation to stop when encountered in the output.

### Controlling Image Generation

If you want finer-grained control over images generated with the SDXL endpoint, you can use the following parameters:

- `negative_prompt`: A text describing content that you want the model to steer _away_ from.
- `guidance_scale`: How closely you want the model to match the prompt. Lower numbers are less accurate, very high numbers might decrease image quality or generate artifacts.
- `width` and `height`: The desired image dimensions. SDXL works best for sizes between 768 and 1024.
- `num_inference_steps`: The number of denoising steps to run. Larger numbers may produce better quality but will be slower. Typical values are between 20 and 50 steps.

For additional details on text-to-image generation, we recommend you check the [diffusers library documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/using-diffusers/sdxl).

### Caching

> If you run the same generation multiple times, you’ll see that the result returned by the API is the same (even if you are using sampling instead of greedy decoding). This is because recent results are cached. To force a different response each time, we’ll pass a header to tell the server to run a new generation each time: `x-use-cache: 0`.

Author: ```suggestion
If you run the same generation multiple times, you’ll see that the result returned by the API is the same (even if you are using sampling instead of greedy decoding). This is because recent results are cached. To force a different response each time, we can use an HTTP header to tell the server to run a new generation each time: `x-use-cache: 0`.
```

```python
for token in client.text_generation("How do you make cheese?", max_new_tokens=12, stream=True):
    print(token)

# To
# make
# cheese
#,
# you
# need
# to
# start
# with
# milk
```

To use the generate_stream endpoint with curl, you can add the `-N`/`--no-buffer` flag, which disables curl default buffering and shows data as it arrives from the server.

```
curl -N https://api-inference.huggingface.co/models/meta-llama/Llama-2-70b-chat-hf \
    -X POST \
    -d '{"inputs": "In a surprising turn of events, ", "parameters": {"temperature": 0.7, "max_new_tokens": 100}}' \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <YOUR_TOKEN>"
```

### Error handling

When errors occur, they may appear in the following flavors:
- As an HTTP response code.
- As a service-specific error that goes with a successful HTTP response code `200`. For example, if the model was evicted after a period of inactivity, you may encounter the following response:

```json
{'error': 'Model stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-1-base is currently loading',
 'estimated_time': 726.7694702148438}
```

Please make sure your code handles both cases appropriately.

## Subscribe to PRO

> You can sign up today for a PRO subscription [here](https://huggingface.co/subscribe/pro). Benefit from higher rate limits, custom accelerated endpoints for the latest models, and early access to features. If you've built some exciting projects with the Inference API or are looking for a model not available in Inference for PROs, please [use this discussion](https://huggingface.co/spaces/huggingface/HuggingDiscussions/discussions/13).

Reviewer 3: i would also mention Enterprise users, at least here and in the FAQ
